docs: in memory state store component (#2534)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/reference/components-reference/supported-state-stores/setup-inmemory.md

---
type: docs
title: "In Memory"
linkTitle: "In Memory"
description: "Detailed documentation on the In Memory state component"
aliases:
  - "/operations/components/setup-state-store/supported-state-stores/setup-inmemory/"
---

> The In Memory state store component is useful for development purposes and works inside of a single machine boundary.

Reviewer: Q: Can this ever be used for production? In other words, can this component get to stable state and be used in production on a single machine, or is that never a goal?

Reviewer 2: Seems like a bad idea because it would increase the footprint of the Daprd process indefinitely. In a container world this would certainly mean the size of the sidecar container needs to be increased and that isn't useful.

Reviewer 2: What does Stable mean here? Inherently it's a development feature only right?

I suppose some people might want the in memory state store to be used in production on some IOT devices? that could make sense...

Reviewer: Then should there be a way of marking components to say developer only and will never be stable. Stable is simple N/A?

Author: >Q: Can this ever be used for production? 

For now, it's not a goal. I will follow your advice and mark it as N/A.

But, when developing other sidecar project, I once had a user scenario in the production environment that users need "local cache" in the sidecar. I think this component can be improved to be a local cache.
Anyway, it depends on user request. We can wait for users' feedback

> ## Create a Dapr component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Component format
```

To setup in-memory state store create a component of type `state.in-memory`. See [this guide]({{< ref "howto-get-save-state.md#step-1-setup-a-state-store" >}}) on how to create and apply a state store configuration.

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: <NAME>
  namespace: <NAMESPACE>
spec:
  type: state.in-memory
  version: v1
```

> 

Reviewer: Q: Are there no metadata fields for this? If not, it would still be good to add a heading "Spec metadata fields" and say that there are none, so this is explicit. 

Also I am sure that the schema requires metadata to be there, so it is best to add this into the YAML file above with an empty array.

spec:
  type: state.in-memory
  version: v1
  metadata: []

See this https://github.com/dapr/docs/pull/2527/files#diff-8532dd3adcfbc549dbb03eed88c30ec3988fb81f45bd6f4a775b6e91ed16f144R23

Reviewer 2: Agree with this.

---
type: docs
title: "In Memory"
linkTitle: "In Memory"
description: "Detailed documentation on the In Memory state component"
aliases:
  - "/operations/components/setup-state-store/supported-state-stores/setup-inmemory/"
---

The In Memory state store component is useful for development purposes and works inside of a single machine boundary.

> This component **shouldn't be used for production**. It is developer only and will never be stable. If you come across a scenario and want to use it in production, you can submit an issue and discuss it with the community.

Author: @msfussell  I added highlight in this doc.

> This component **shouldn't be used for production**. It is developer only and will never be stable. If you come across a scenario and want to use it in production, you can submit an issue and discuss it with the community.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{{% alert title="Warning" color="warning" %}}
 This component **shouldn't be used for production**. It is developer only and will never be stable. If you come across a scenario and want to use it in production, you can submit an issue and discuss it with the community.

{{% /alert %}}
```

## Component format

> To setup in-memory state store create a component of type `state.in-memory`. See [this guide]({{< ref "howto-get-save-state.md#step-1-setup-a-state-store" >}}) on how to create and apply a state store configuration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To setup in-memory state store, create a component of type `state.in-memory`. See [this guide]({{< ref "howto-get-save-state.md#step-1-setup-a-state-store" >}}) on how to create and apply a state store configuration.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: <NAME>
  namespace: <NAMESPACE>
spec:
  type: state.in-memory
  version: v1
  metadata: []
```

> > Note: in-memory does not require any specific metadata for the component to work, however spec.metadata is a required field.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> Note: While in-memory does not require any specific metadata for the component to work, `spec.metadata` is a required field.
```

## Related links
- [Basic schema for a Dapr component]({{< ref component-schema >}})

> - Read [this guide]({{< ref "howto-get-save-state.md#step-2-save-and-retrieve-a-single-state" >}}) for instructions on configuring state store components

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Learn [how to create and configure state store components]({{< ref howto-get-save-state.md >}}) 
```

> - [State management building block]({{< ref state-management >}})

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Read more about the [state management building block]({{< ref state-management >}})
```
